[IMP] Subscriptions: Contract in exception (#10829)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/subscriptions/renewals.rst

Renew subscriptions
===================

The foundation of any subscription business model is recurring payments. This is when customers
reliably pay a regular amount at specific intervals, in exchange for access to a subscription
product or service.

> A subscription renewal is the process followed by customers when they willingly choose to continue
> their participation (and payment) for a subscription product or service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subscription renewal is the process customers follow when they willingly choose to continue participating in, and paying for, a subscription product or service.
```

Subscribers experience the renewal process at different intervals -- weekly, monthly, annually, etc.
-- depending on the duration of the agreed-upon contract.

> Most companies that offer subscriptions prefer to automate the renewals process for customers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most companies that offer subscriptions prefer to automate the renewal process for customers.
```

> However, in some cases, manual subscription renewals are still used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, manual subscription renewals are still used in some cases.
```

> With the Odoo **Subscriptions** application, a company can manage all of their subscriptions in one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the Odoo **Subscriptions** application, a company can manage all of its subscriptions in one
```

product or service.

Subscription renewal is the process customers follow when they willingly choose to continue
participating in, and paying for, a subscription product or service.

Subscribers experience the renewal process at different intervals -- weekly, monthly, annually, etc.
-- depending on the duration of the agreed-upon contract.

Most companies that offer subscriptions prefer to automate the renewal process for customers.
However, manual subscription renewals are still used in some cases.

With the Odoo **Subscriptions** application, a company can manage all of its subscriptions in one
place. Renewals can be processed automatically, or manually, include additional products or upsells
per renewal order, and be filtered in batch views to quickly locate customers who need to renew
their subscriptions.

Subscription renewals
=====================

In order to renew a subscription, a quotation with a subscription product **must** be confirmed,
with a configured *Recurring Plan* selected.

To open a subscription quotation, navigate to :menuselection:`Subscriptions app --> Subscriptions

> --> Quotations`, and select the desired quotation from the list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
--> Quotations`, and select the desired quotation from the list. Or, create a new one by clicking :guilabel:`New` to open a new quotation form.
```

.. note::
  - Only a singular product is required.
  - A subscription service counts as a product, as it is considered a recurring product.

> Then, that subscription quotation needs to be confirmed, and payment from the customer for the
> initial subscription has to be invoiced and registered to successfully open a *Renewal Quotation*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Subscription quotations **must** be confirmed, and payment from the customer for the
initial subscription **must** be invoiced and registered in order to successfully open a *Renewal Quotation*.
```

.. seealso::
   For more information on the above process of confirming quotations and invoicing payments,
   see:
   - :doc:`../sales/send_quotations/create_quotations`
   - :doc:`../sales/send_quotations/get_paid_to_validate`

> Once the payment from the subscription quotation is confirmed by clicking the :guilabel:`Confirm`
> button, the quotation turns into a sales order. An :guilabel:`In Progress` tag is applied to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the payment from the subscription quotation is confirmed, the quotation turns into a sales order.
An :guilabel:`In Progress` tag is applied to the
```

> sales order form, and a series of buttons also appear at the top of the sales order -- including a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sales order form, and a series of buttons also appear at the top of the sales order, including a
```

.. note::
  - Only a singular product is required.

>   - A subscription service is still a product (albeit a digital, recurring one).

Reviewer: Instead of digital, I would try to define it using our terms (goods, service, etc).  Unless I am mistaken, I don't think we use the term digital to refer to products? (If I am wrong feel free to ignore this!)

When clicked, Odoo reveals an :guilabel:`MRR Analysis` page, detailing the monthly recurring revenue
related to this specific subscription.

.. important::
   On rare occasions, automatic payment can fail and result in a *Payment Failure* flag if there is
   an error in the payment method.

>    This is done to prevent the system from charging the customer again the next time a schedule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This is done to prevent the system from charging the customer again the next time a scheduled
```

   action is run. Because the status of the payment is unknown, Odoo requests a manual operation to
   check if the payment has been made, before the payment can be used again.

   To do this, navigate to :menuselection:`Subscriptions app --> Subscriptions --> Quotations`.
   Click into the desired subscription, then check the Chatter to see if the payment was made.

   If the payment **was not** made, first enter :doc:`debug mode

>    <../../general/developer_mode>`. Then, click the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab, and untick the

Reviewer: I would double check this section (try running make review again) I think there is an early line break on line 101.

When clicked, Odoo reveals an :guilabel:`MRR Analysis` page, detailing the monthly recurring revenue
related to this specific subscription.

.. important::
   On rare occasions, automatic payment can fail, which results in a *Payment Failure* tag on the

>    top right of the sales order if there is an error in the payment method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   top-right of the sales order, if there is an error in the payment method.
```

   This is done to prevent the system from charging the customer again the next time a scheduled
   action is run. Because the status of the payment is unknown, Odoo requests a manual operation to
   check if the payment has been made, before the payment can be used again.

   To do this, navigate to :menuselection:`Subscriptions app --> Subscriptions --> Quotations`.
   Click into the desired subscription, then check the *Chatter* to see if the payment was made.

>    If the payment **was not** made, first enter :doc:`debug mode <../../general/developer_mode>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If the payment was **not** made, first enter :doc:`debug mode <../../general/developer_mode>`.
```

   Then, click the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab, and untick the checkbox next to :guilabel:`Contract

>    in exception`. Reload the sales order, and the :guilabel:`Payment Failure` flag is gone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   in exception`. Reload the sales order, and the :guilabel:`Payment Failure` flag is gone.
```
is this a 'flag' or 'tag'?

   If the payment **was** made, a new invoice must be made and posted manually. This automatically
   updates the next invoice date of the subscription. Once created, enter :doc:`debug mode
   <../../general/developer_mode>`, and navigate to the new sales order. Click the :guilabel:`Other
   Info` tab, and untick the checkbox next to :guilabel:`Contract in exception`.

>    Reload the sales order, and the :guilabel:`Payment Failure` flag is gone.

Reviewer 2: same comment re: flag v. tag?

   .. image:: renewals/contract-in-exception.png
      :align: center

>       :alt: The "contract in exception" option selected with the "payment failure" flag shown.

Reviewer 2: per the updated formatting guidelines, we're supposed to avoid using red markers/indicators in screenshots anymore

When clicked, Odoo reveals an :guilabel:`MRR Analysis` page, detailing the monthly recurring revenue
related to this specific subscription.

.. important::
   On rare occasions, automatic payment can fail, which results in a *Payment Failure* tag on the
   top-right of the sales order, if there is an error in the payment method.

   This is done to prevent the system from charging the customer again the next time a scheduled
   action is run. Because the status of the payment is unknown, Odoo requests a manual operation to
   check if the payment has been made, before the payment can be used again.

   To do this, navigate to :menuselection:`Subscriptions app --> Subscriptions --> Quotations`.

>    Click into the desired subscription, then check the *Chatter* to see if the payment was made.

Reviewer 3: No need to format or capitalize "chatter" :)
```suggestion
   Click into the desired subscription, then check the chatter to see if the payment was made.
```

   If the payment was **not** made, first enter :doc:`debug mode <../../general/developer_mode>`.
   Then, click the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab, and untick the checkbox next to :guilabel:`Contract
   in exception`. Reload the sales order, and the :guilabel:`Payment Failure` tag is gone.

   If the payment **was** made, a new invoice must be made and posted manually. This automatically
   updates the next invoice date of the subscription. Once created, enter :doc:`debug mode
   <../../general/developer_mode>`, and navigate to the new sales order. Click the :guilabel:`Other
   Info` tab, and untick the checkbox next to :guilabel:`Contract in exception`.
   Reload the sales order, and the :guilabel:`Payment Failure` tag is gone.

   .. figure:: renewals/contract-in-exception.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The "contract in exception" option selected with the "payment failure" tag shown.

>       The "contract in exception" option selected with the "payment failure" tag shown.

Reviewer 3: Prefer using formatting instead of quotes here :)
```suggestion
      The :guilabel:`contract in exception` option selected with the :guilabel:`Payment Failure` tag
      shown.
```

>    In both cases, once the *Contract in exception* option is no longer selected, Odoo handles
>    renewals automatically again. If the subscription remains in *Payment Failure*, it is skipped by
>    Odoo until the sales order is closed.

Reviewer 3: Nitpick, since we havent navigated the user away from the sales order, this is still technically the same UI, so guilabel can be used. And to generally refer to a sales order that is in "payment failure", I think we can lowercase it, otherwise we should refer to the tag
```suggestion
   In both cases, once the :guilabel:`Contract in exception` option is no longer selected, Odoo
   handles renewals automatically again. If the subscription remains in *payment failure*, it is
   skipped by Odoo until the sales order is closed.
```
